# Data Anecdote: Travel Guides and Knowledge Graphs

Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies suffer a common fate. Before they become a market reality, they are deemed pure science fiction that does not solve real-life problems. Once they hit the market, however, they are no longer considered *AI* but become part of our everyday lives, and living without them becomes unthinkable. In fact, I am speaking these words right now while they appear magically as text in front of me without touching my keyboard.

**A brief history of travel guides.** So, what are travel guides good for anyway? For example, anybody who wants to travel, say for a vacation, could download weather data from the government portals of potential travel destinations, download crime statistics from the data sources of the countries they want to visit or more specifically, the data provided for the city or regional level from the local authorities, collect information about individual historic sites from organizations that maintain these records (such as the ministry of tourism), load all these data into some system (say, a GIS), learn how to use these systems, and compile their individual travel destination selection tool after just a hundred hours of work. 

Nobody really does things this way. They all simply buy a travel guide book for $20. This seems surprising at first as such travel guides have multiple disadvantages: One must trust the author(s) and the publisher; the travel guide is outdated the moment it goes into print; the guide is coarse in the sense that it only lists weather data for entire cities or even entire regions (in contrast to the raw weather models we can directly download that have a resolution of less than a square mile); it lists only a selection of sightseeing spots and hotels, but not all; and so forth. **People buy travel guides because they solve our data acquisition bottleneck.** Put differently, we want to maximize the time spend at the beach and minimize the time searching for that beach. 

You may have noticed that the sales of travel guide books are not exactly doing well these days, but the concept of travel guides is doing better than ever before. The "Read Write Web" (Social Web, Web 2.0) eliminated many of the existing shortcomings of travel guide books. For instance, instead of trusting an author's individual opinion, we can pick from hundreds of travel blogs, and we can read the reactions of thousands of reviewers about how they felt about a blog post. We can even get an average review as "crowd wisdom" about any tourism destination on the planet. Given that people (pre-COVID) traveled all the time and everywhere, travel blogs do not become outdated the way guide books do. In fact, they are near-real time, reflecting recent changes in conditions. Think about that for a minute!

Still, there is reason to believe that travel blogs are also a dying kind. What they cannot provide is individualization. It turns out that our particular information needs differ. What if you want to travel in May, prefer warm weather, a beach, dislike high humidity, and are afraid of shark attacks (despite that this is really an unreasonable fear)? In this case, you are back to acquiring data yourself. This time you do not have to download data from weather services, but you have to compile data across many travel blogs and search them manually.

However, there is a solution! We call this the Web of Data or a Knowledge Graph (KG). Such a KG can easily and within minutes answer a query for regions known for tourism, near the beach, with a May average temperature above 75F, low humidity, and the probability of shark attack in the order of less than once per season on average. In principle, such graphs do exist today as do the systems to query them (using natural language). What does not exist is a graph that contains the required geo-data, be it about humidity, cognitive geographic regions,  and other environmental information. **We will call this future graph the KnowWhereGraph.**

Is there anything you can do with these graphs with respect to the travel guidebooks that you could not have done before? Strictly speaking, no, that is not the case. However, they maximize your time at the beach versus your time studying beaches to a degree that enables you to reenvision your vacation planning altogether.
